[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey
there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
A few episodes ago, I
started this little journey
to try and understand
Polymer's data binding system.
And since then we've looked
at property effects, path
notifications, and watching
for changes in your JavaScript
using observers.
So today, we're going to
bring it all to a close
by finally looking
at array bindings.
Without further
ado, let's hop in.
All right, so let's
say you've got
a list of users in an array.
Maybe it's like a leaderboard
or a high scores list
or something like that.
And you always want
to show the user that
is in the first position.
Now logically, you
might do something
like this, where you try to use
array syntax to bind to users
square brackets 0.
However, syntax like that
is not actually supported
in a Polymer binding.
Instead, Polymer treats items
in an array much the same way
as it treats subproperties
in an object.
It turns them into paths.
So you've got users
square bracket 0,
and Polymer's actually going
to change that to users.0.
Now in the last
episode, I showed you
how you can watch for changes
on a path using observers.
You can check that
out over there.
So let's change our binding
to use this new approach.
I'm going to create a
property called firstUser.
And then, I'm going to
creater an observer which
is watching the user's
array-- this array right here.
It's watching that user's
array using an asterisk.
And remember, that
asterisk or that wild card
will watch for any
changes in the array
or its subproperties, et cetera.
And it will call this handler
function with a change record
as the sort of first argument.
And then I can actually
pass the second argument.
I can pass 0.
And that will then serve
as the second argument
to the function, which
we'll use as our index.
So anytime this
array changes, we're
going to get a change
record in this handler.
And if you recall from
the previous episode,
change records have multiple
properties that we can use.
One of those properties
is the base property,
which always refers
to the object previous
to the asterisk.
So in this case, it's
always going to refer back
to our user's array.
So we can say that we want
the base object, and we
want the item at that index.
So this is basically
saying, hey, return users 0.
So over here on the
right, we can actually
see this in practice.
I'm going to use my little
tricky Chrome DevTools
method to select my item.
I'll use Polymer's
unshift method
to pass a new value
into its user's array.
And then we can see that
that is reflecting up there,
because once we've
set this new property,
it's updating our
binding right there.
And those two match up.
Cool.
Now, I was wondering if I
could simplify this a bit,
and I noticed in the
documentation it actually
recommends using a
computed binding.
So let's change the code to
use that approach instead.
So now I've got-- instead of
a property that I've created,
I'm just using a
computed binding function
I'm calling computeUser.
I'm still using the wild card
approach to observe that array.
And when you look
at computeUser,
it still gets a change record.
It still gets that index
argument, and it just-- instead
of setting a property, it
just returns the value back
into this binding.
So let's give that a shot.
All right.
Go over here, I'll
unshift a new user
into the front of the array.
And everything works.
Now for me, this was kind
of a revelation of sorts.
I realized that computed
bindings and observers
basically work the
exact same way.
And so if you
understand one, then you
understand the magic of the
other, which is pretty cool.
Now you might be
wondering, if we're just
working with paths,
how come I can't just
bind to the subproperty, if
you will, this users.0 path?
And then since we're using
Polymer's array methods, which
normally will notify
items-- subproperty
bindings of changes, if we're
using those array methods,
then how come these
things aren't updating
as I would expect them to?
Well, what's
actually going on is
this will work for
the initial render.
So the first time I do this, I
will see the first place user
from my array.
I'll see Eric over there.
But let's look at what
happens when I try and push
in a second user.
So I'll unshift, and this time
I'll ad a user named Boris.
Nothing updates
visually, although we
can verify that the
users array has changed.
So Boris is now in
that first position.
And the reason this is happening
is because, under the hood,
Polymer takes that
initial path of users.0,
and it turns it into its own
special, immutable key which
you can use to keep
track of the item.
This way, it can always
refer back to that item,
even if the order in
the array has changed.
And so that means that you
can't really reliably use
this approach right here.
The best practice
way of doing things
is to either use an observer
or use a computed binding.
So with that, you are now
Polymer data binding masters.
Now last week, we sent
out this little tweet
asking what you wanted to see
in the next episode of Polycast.
You all voted and said you
wanted to see unit testing.
So be sure to stick
around when next week we
cover web component tester.
In the meantime, though, be sure
to click that little Subscribe
button if you've
enjoyed this episode.
If you have
questions for us, you
can ping us on a social
network of your choosing
at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching.
I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]